# PDF Chatbot App

The **PDF Chatbot App** is a Generative Question & Answer (RAG) application that allows users to ask questions based on PDF documents and receive automatically generated responses from an advanced language model. The application integrates Natural Language Processing (NLP) and information retrieval techniques to provide accurate and relevant answers based on the content of the PDFs.
A cool and easy project to learn how to built a chatbot with langchain and LLM model from scratch. 😁✨

## Features

- **Interactive Q&A**: Users can query one or more PDF documents and get relevant answers generated by a language model.
- **Efficient Search**: Utilizes advanced techniques for retrieving information from large documents(cosinus similarity between embedding vectors).
- **User-Friendly Interface**: Provides both command-line and Streamlit interface options for interacting with the application.

## Technologies Used

- **Transformers (Hugging Face)**: Utilized to load and execute the pre-trained *LaMini-T5-738M* language model.

- **PyTorch**: Framework for deep learning model manipulation and GPU operations to accelerate model inference.

- **LangChain**: Orchestrates various stages of text processing, including extracting relevant answers from PDFs and generating responses.

- **Chroma**: Vector database for efficient storage and indexing to search text segments from PDFs.

- **Sentence Transformers**: Creates vector embeddings of text segments to facilitate semantic search within documents.

- **Streamlit**: Provides an interactive user interface for development and testing.
The project includes two versions:
  - `procedural_app.py`: For direct console usage.
  - `streamlit_app.py`: For usage with the Streamlit interface.

## Configuration

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   Ensure all necessary libraries are installed by running:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Download Model**:
   Download the *LaMini-T5-738M* model and necessary data for the project.

3. **Run the Application**:
   - For console usage:
     ```bash
     python procedural_app.py
     ```
   - For Streamlit interface:
     ```bash
     streamlit run streamlit_app.py
     ```

## Usage

1. **Console Version**:
   Run `procedural_app.py` and follow the on-screen instructions to interact with the chatbot.

2. **Streamlit Version**:
   Launch `streamlit_app.py` to open a web-based interface where you can upload PDFs and ask questions.

